# SoftwareSDD

## Briefly summarize The Gaming Room client and their software requirements. Who was the client? What type of software did they want you to design?
* The Gaming Room client requested the development of the game "Draw it, or Lose it" where teams compete to guess what is being drawn. The requirements for this application include having a client-server architecture. This architecture would be best developed in a language such as C# using Asp.net or Java using Spring. The system the application woulde be built on could be best utlizied using a linux based machine, which allows for diversification and greater freedom during development. This allows for more control over how the game will be able to implement on other systems, and since this application will be purely web-based it makes it simpler to access via a network connection. The servers initially would be running off of a simple hosted site, and as the application grows, expanding to servers such as AWS or Microsoft Azure would be beneficial.  

## What did you do particularly well in developing this documentation?
* I was very specific in my description and details regarding pros and cons for each selected infrastructure. There will always be downsides to every application, but for starters using a client-server architecture would eliminate the need for physical download of the content and the game functionality and instead could be hosted on a server and stored personal data over the database. I was sure to explain the benefits in all areas including when scaling the product, storage management, memory management, security and reliablity. Each of these are important when considering what platform, technologies and architecture to design the application under.

## What about the process of working through a design document did you find helpful when developing the code?
* I found working through a design document helped having a tangible objective or goal and correlating that into the code. This allowed me to gain better insight on what the long term implementation would look like and developing the code base to suite the needs specified in the document. This document acts as somewhat of a roadmap or objectives for the application, while also working through the problems of design versus implementation. In my eyes, the better the design for the application, the smoother it will be to build and develop (knowing there are no conflicting development aspects of the application).

## If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
* I would choose to revise the operating platform section of the software design document. This section seems to be quite vague and doesn't fully utilize the explanation in regards to the operating platform. The operating platform is not so important in the design of this application since the application will be a client-server architecture, and won't be hosted locally on any individual users machine. This allows for arbitrary use of the application across multple platforms (as long as they can access a web browser).

## How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your software design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
* Interpreting the users needs comes down to writing out a long term plan on paper and in your head about the end goal of the application. When planning through the implementation it's important to keep perspective of the users and understanding how a user will interact with the application. This allows for having the core experience of the application focus on the user experience. The requirements for the application were that it be web-based and that it has the ability to operate on multiple platforms. Understanding the clients budget is also massively important when considering the scale of the application. Licensing costs for having significant server capacity can outweight the applications needs. This balance was also important ot keep in mind when considering the design document. 

## How did you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a similar software application?
* I approached designing the software from as many angles as possible in terms of the user experience and the core functionality versus the overall long term cost and effectiveness of the application. I chose to start with the perspective of small scale and once the servers gain momentum, launching more servers to support the needs. In the future, I would use the strategy of gaining user stories and further understanding of the long-term use of the application. This means I would focus more on understanding how long a user would play the game or application and is it a considerable amount that is in line with the software design requirements. Over-engineering a product for a small amount of users can cost a lot for development and longevity purposes, and finding the correct balance is necessary in order to launch a successful application.
